---
title: The WAVE Model
---

The WAVE model comprises five key components: Recruitment, Screening and
Assessment, Training, Matching, and Alumni Support. These components ensure that the
right candidate is selected for the program, the right skills are taught to the candidate, and
the candidate is matched with a requisite job that utilizes the candidates’ skills while
allowing the candidate to reach his/her full potential. Lastly, the model ensures ongoing
support to the candidate allowing him/her to continuously improve on his/her skills, thus
enabling them adapt to the dynamic changing work environment.

## Finding Candidates

This component focuses on finding and recruiting youth candidates through various
outreach channels.

## Screening & Assessment

This component focuses on identifying youth who are willing to learn and determined to
succeed. In the screening process, candidates attend an information session, and undergo
an assessment to determine whether or not they are suitable candidates for the program.
Eligible candidates are ultimately admitted into the program.

## Training

Candidates that have successfully passed through the screening process are accepted and
trained. The training provides industry-relevant skills which employers seek such as
effective communication, problem solving, and issues identification.

## Matching

This component of the model involves developing employer partnerships, identifying vacant
jobs, and matching candidates with jobs. The match process ensures candidates’ skills are
aligned with the needs of the employer, thus ensuring a mutually beneficial work
relationship between both parties.

## Alumni Support

WAVE provides ongoing support to the youth it places in various work environments. The
model recognizes that work environments and the larger labor market are dynamic, and
provides the necessary support to help alumni continuously adapt to the environment by
improving on existing skills and acquiring new ones. The ongoing alumni support ensures
sustainable skills development and improvement opportunities for the youth and thus,
continuous work opportunities.

